Well, if I did wanna split this
application into multiple chunks,
how would I do that, right?
And one way that we could do that is,
there's two ways to import
files with ECMAScript modules.
One is this kind of statement that
we have up here, which is import,
this is at the top of the file,
it means immediately, right?
We know that we need this file and
we will have it, right?
If you've got a client-side router or
maybe it's like, hey,
I don't need all the assets for this modal
or something like that until maybe they
hover over the button, right,
or something along those lines.
Then you could choose to do something
along those lines as well and
asynchronously load something,
and let's look at how that works.
And so, all right,
if I got rid of this statement for
a second, and instead,
we'll get rid all this right now,
we'll say import and we'll do ./counter.
That's good enough for now.
What this version of import of
ECMAScript modules does is it returns
a promise, right?
So, if you've got top level async await,
you can await it, otherwise it's just
a promise, at which point it will now,
when it hits this code, and again, you
could say like, hey, until they hover over
the button, that's gonna have the modal.
Or if I have a client-side router, when
they go to the next client-side route,
that's when, if you use something
like React router, or svelte kit, or
most like single page app frameworks,
like Next, for instance,
this is happening for you with
the framework by virtue of the routes.
So you, generally speaking,
if you're using any of those frameworks,
don't think too much about this, but
this is effectively what's happening.
It's a promise, literally, and
then we get the stuff in the file as kind
of the return value of that promise.
So we'll go and dynamically fetch that
module whenever this import statement is
called, instead of immediately
as soon as the file is loaded.
And we can kinda see,
if we go ahead and build it again.
If you look right now I've
got just my HTML file.
And let's see if I can, yeah.
And I've got the JavaScript file.
Now if you look,
because I'm dynamically importing it, and
it's probably an action that would
happen, either client-side route changing,
whatever action would
trigger the very next thing.
You can see that we actually spit
out two different files now, right?
So it knew,
I don't need everything all at once.
Awesome, go wait until we get the thing
and then load the second piece, so
you can begin to split stuff up.
So this could be, again, if you have
client-side routes or if it's a situation.
I work on an app where generally speaking,
we get really frustrated if a content side
takes too long to load, but
we do watch a loading bar in Gmail, right?
And so there's always those trade offs.
I don't have a lot to show until
the JavaScript has loaded in my app.
But if I was running like
the New York Times or something like that,
it could be that, all right,
go run the initial JavaScript.
And then these will be asynchronous after
the initial JavaScript file is parsed, and
it'll immediately go get the next
thing and start loading it, right?
A lot of times, content sites will try to
show you the content as fast as possible,
and then they'll load up all the ads
that take forever to load, right?
So they are already reading that point
by the time they slide all the ads in
there, right?
So this technique would work for that
where we would load the initial file and
then we would go ahead and
import the counter as well.
And you can see that now I've
broken this up into two chunks,
that it has already figured this out for
me and done everything, and
I don't think a lot about it.
The other thing that we can do is,
right now you saw that I
have a development server.
The other thing you might wanna
do as you're building and
testing stuff out to make sure
everything's behaving the way you want is
Vite has this other one called NPX or
just really Vite preview.
And what Vite preview does is
it takes the built assets, vite.
The nice part is there's smiles and
giggling when I say vite, so
it's gonna be great, [LAUGH].
I thought I'd make it a lot longer
before the first time I slipped, but
apparently not.
Vite preview will look at your built
assets and spin up a web server around
that, so you actually see, okay,
these are the built production assets.
Does this behave the way
I think it's supposed to?
And this application is simple enough
that other than it being 4173,
we can go ahead and
see that's mostly the same idea,
made sure my counter works,
so on and so forth, right?
And so
that's actually the production build.
If I look in the elements, you'll see
that this is now the production build.
And I can actually play
around with that as well.
Now, again, most of the time in my
experience, they are similar, but
if there are transformations that
you're only doing at build time, right,
which is what some will
see at the very end.
Then this is useful to seeing like, okay,
did my build part work the same
way as it does in development?
Cuz we know that we don't
have to think about it,
but Vite is using
a different technology for
the development server to give us
that fastest feedback loop possible.
Than it is as it's kinda doing the tree
shaking and code splitting, and
everything along those lines for
the production builds.
So it's mostly, if there's something
special about your build process,
you won't be able to verify or
if you're debugging,
then the Vite preview is super useful.
But generally speaking, in my experience,
which is, yes, a few years, but
all on just the apps
that I work on every day.
Generally speaking,
the development server works really great,
and we can rely on that most
of the time for most things.